_features/00-imagexd2017.md, before:

---
id: ImageXD17
name: ImageXD 2017
heading: ImageXD 2017
---

# Day 1, March 29th

## Learn

**Please
[install the required software and datasets](http://www.imagexd.org/2017/03/20/tutorial-materials.html)
prior to the tutorials.**

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00–10:00 : [NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib](http://scipy.org), an introduction
to numerical analysis with Python. This tutorial is aimed at those familiar with
Python, but who have not used NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib extensively before.

10:00–11:30 : [scikit-image](http://scikit-image.org/), image processing in
Python. We introduce the scikit-image library, demonstrate its various
capabilities, and do several hands-on exercises to practice its use.

11:30–12:00 : [Dask](http://dask.pydata.org/en/latest/) for parallel
processing.

12:00–1:00 : lunch break

1:00–2:30 : [ImageJ](https://imagej.nih.gov/ij/), image processing in Java. We
will explore ImageJ and its SciJava interface with examples in Python and
Clojure.

2:30–4:00 : [Vani Mandava](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/people/vanim/)
from Microsoft Research will present image processing use-cases of the
[Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/) cloud.

4:00–5:30 : [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) and
[Keras](https://keras.io/). Deep neural networks in Python. In this tutorial we
learn how to train a neural network using the TensorFlow library, and how to
then apply it to scientific data.

# Day 2, March 30th

## Discuss

### Schedule:

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00 : Welcome

9:15–9:45 : [Stella Yu](http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/~stellayu/), University of California, Berkeley: **Analysis and image classification**

9:45–10:15 : [Talita Perciano](http://vis.lbl.gov/~tperciano), Lawrence Berkeley National Lab.: **Image Segmentation Across Domains using Parallel Markov Random Field Technique**

10:30–12:00 : Breakout sessions

12:00–1:00 : Lunch break

1:00–1:30 : [Kyle Harrington](http://kyleharrington.com/), University of Idaho: **Biological Image Analysis using the ImageJ/Fiji Software Ecosystem**

1:30–2:00 : [Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~kemelmi/), The University of Washington: **Modeling people from historical photos**

2:00–2:30 : Claire McQuin, Broad Institute: **Developing High Content Image Analysis Software for Biologists**

2:30–3:00 : [Lydia Ng](https://www.alleninstitute.org/what-we-do/brain-science/about/team/staff-profiles/lydia-ng/), Allen Institute for Brain Science: **Delivering data, tools and knowledge on brain cell types, connections and activity**

3:15–3:45 : [Mario Juric](http://research.majuric.org/public/), The University of Washington: **Object Detection in Astronomy: Current Practice & Challenges Going Forward**

4:00–4:45 : Breakout sessions

4:45 Wrap-up for the day

5:00 : Reception

# Day 3, March 31st

## Create

We will get together and work in teams to develop ideas around data,
software, algorithms, and learning. This open format will allow
participants to learn from each other, work together, and explore
concepts that cross domain boundaries.

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00 - 10:00 : Project ideas discussion

10:00 - 12:00 : Group work

1:00 - 1:30 : Updates

1:30 - 4:30 : Group work

4:30 - 5:00 : Final presentations

## Recommended accommodation:

For visitors from out of town:

[http://www.universityinnseattle.com/](http://www.universityinnseattle.com/)

[http://www.watertownseattle.com/](http://www.watertownseattle.com/)

Commit message:

Lunch is on your own on day 1,3

_features/00-imagexd2017.md, after:

---
id: ImageXD17
name: ImageXD 2017
heading: ImageXD 2017
---

# Day 1, March 29th

## Learn

**Please
[install the required software and datasets](http://www.imagexd.org/2017/03/20/tutorial-materials.html)
prior to the tutorials.**

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00–10:00 : [NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib](http://scipy.org), an introduction
to numerical analysis with Python. This tutorial is aimed at those familiar with
Python, but who have not used NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib extensively before.

10:00–11:30 : [scikit-image](http://scikit-image.org/), image processing in
Python. We introduce the scikit-image library, demonstrate its various
capabilities, and do several hands-on exercises to practice its use.

11:30–12:00 : [Dask](http://dask.pydata.org/en/latest/) for parallel
processing.

12:00–1:00 : Lunch (on your own)

1:00–2:30 : [ImageJ](https://imagej.nih.gov/ij/), image processing in Java. We
will explore ImageJ and its SciJava interface with examples in Python and
Clojure.

2:30–4:00 : [Vani Mandava](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/people/vanim/)
from Microsoft Research will present image processing use-cases of the
[Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/) cloud.

4:00–5:30 : [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) and
[Keras](https://keras.io/). Deep neural networks in Python. In this tutorial we
learn how to train a neural network using the TensorFlow library, and how to
then apply it to scientific data.

# Day 2, March 30th

## Discuss

### Schedule:

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00 : Welcome

9:15–9:45 : [Stella Yu](http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/~stellayu/), University of California, Berkeley: **Analysis and image classification**

9:45–10:15 : [Talita Perciano](http://vis.lbl.gov/~tperciano), Lawrence Berkeley National Lab.: **Image Segmentation Across Domains using Parallel Markov Random Field Technique**

10:30–12:00 : Breakout sessions

12:00–1:00 : Lunch break

1:00–1:30 : [Kyle Harrington](http://kyleharrington.com/), University of Idaho: **Biological Image Analysis using the ImageJ/Fiji Software Ecosystem**

1:30–2:00 : [Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman](http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~kemelmi/), The University of Washington: **Modeling people from historical photos**

2:00–2:30 : Claire McQuin, Broad Institute: **Developing High Content Image Analysis Software for Biologists**

2:30–3:00 : [Lydia Ng](https://www.alleninstitute.org/what-we-do/brain-science/about/team/staff-profiles/lydia-ng/), Allen Institute for Brain Science: **Delivering data, tools and knowledge on brain cell types, connections and activity**

3:15–3:45 : [Mario Juric](http://research.majuric.org/public/), The University of Washington: **Object Detection in Astronomy: Current Practice & Challenges Going Forward**

4:00–4:45 : Breakout sessions

4:45 Wrap-up for the day

5:00 : Reception

# Day 3, March 31st

## Create

We will get together and work in teams to develop ideas around data,
software, algorithms, and learning. This open format will allow
participants to learn from each other, work together, and explore
concepts that cross domain boundaries.

8:30 - 9:00 : Coffee

9:00 - 10:00 : Project ideas discussion

10:00 - 12:00 : Group work

12:00 - 1:00 : Lunch (on your own)

1:00 - 1:30 : Updates

1:30 - 4:30 : Group work

4:30 - 5:00 : Final presentations

## Recommended accommodation:

For visitors from out of town:

[http://www.universityinnseattle.com/](http://www.universityinnseattle.com/)

[http://www.watertownseattle.com/](http://www.watertownseattle.com/)
